.TH HTTP "1" "March 2009" "http" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
http \- HTTP Client program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B http [options] urls ...
.PP
[\fI--benchmark \fR]
[\fI--chunk size \fR]
[\fI--compare dir\fR] 
[\fI--continue\fR] 
[\fI--cookie cookieString\fR] 
[\fI--data string\fR]
[\fI--datafile filename\fR]
[\fI--files fileList\fR]
[\fI--form string\fR]
[\fI--header 'key: value'\fR]
[\fI--host hostName\fR]
[\fI--http version\fR]
[\fI--iterations count\fR]
[\fI--log logSpec\fR]
[\fI--method HTTP_METHOD\fR]
[\fI--noout\fR]
[\fI--password pass\fR]
[\fI--poolThreads count\fR]
[\fI--range byteRanges\fR]
[\fI--retries count\fR]
[\fI--save dir\fR]
[\fI--showHeaders\fR]
[\fI--single\fR]
[\fI--timeout seconds\fR]
[\fI--threads count\fR]
[\fI--user name\fR]
[\fI--verbose\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The http command issues HTTP commands to retrieve files from a web server. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\--benchmark\fR 
Output timing results after retrieving URLs.
.TP
\fB\--chunk size\fR 
Request that web server use use transfer encoding for the response and break the response data into 
chunks of the requested size. This is an Appweb web server custom header and will be ignored by other web servers.
.TP
\fB\--compare dir\fR 
Compare the retrieved files against master copies in dir. Warn if any retrieved files are corrupted.  
.TP
\fB\--continue\fR 
Continue on errors. Default is to stop on the first error.
.TP
\fB\--cookie cookieString\fR 
Define a cookie string to send with the request. Multiple uses okay.
.TP
\fB\--data bodyData\fR 
String of raw body data to send with the request. Assumed to not be URL encoded.
You cannot use this switch with either the --datafile or --form switches. 
.TP
\fB\--datafile filename\fR 
Specifies a filename containing the raw body data to send with the the request. Assumed to not be URL encoded.
You cannot use this switch with either the --data or --form switches.
.TP
\fB\--files fileList\fR 
Retrieve the files in the specified file list.  The format of the file is: {GET|POST} URL If using POST, the line 
after the URL should contain encoded POST data and it should begin with a TAB.  
.TP
\fB\--form formData\fR 
String of body data to send with the request. Assumed to be URL encoded. ie. "name=paul&address=uk".
You cannot use this switch with either the --datafile or --form switches.
.TP
\fB\--header "key: value"\fR 
Add a custom header to send with the request. Multiple --header switches can be supplied.
.TP
\fB\--host name\fR 
Prepend all URLs with the specified host. For example if '-h www.myHost.com:8888" were used with the URL "/index.html", 
then http will retrieve http://www.myHost.com:8888.
.TP
\fB\--http HTTP_VERSION\fR 
Use the specified HTTP protocol. httpVersion should be either '0' for HTTP/1.0 or 1 for HTTP/1.1.
.TP
\fB\--iterations count\fR 
Retrieve the URLs iterations times. Useful for load testing. This switch can also be abbreviated as \fB\-i\fR.
.TP
\fB\--log logSpec\fR 
Specify a file to log messages.  The syntax is: \fB"--log logName[,moduleName][:logLevel]"\fR.
Level 3 will trace the request and response headers.
.TP
\fB\--method method\fR 
Set the HTTP method. Values may be "GET", "PUT", "OPTIONS", "TRACE".
.TP
\fB\--noout \fR 
Run in quiet mode and do no output. Suppress tracing requests.
This switch can also be abbreviated as \fB\-n\fR.
.TP
\fB\--password passPhrase\fR 
Specify a password to send with the request. Requires a user name to be also specified via --user.
.TP
\fB\--poolThreads count\fR 
Specify the number of pool threads to use. Pool threads are used to process callbacks.
.TP
\fB\--printable\fR 
Make binary output printable by printing hex digits for each character.
.TP
\fB\--range byteRange\fR 
Request that only the specified byte range of data be returned with the response. This will add a "Range" header to the request.
The range format  is:  Range: bytes=n1-n2,n3-n4,... where n1 is first byte position and n2 is last byte position.
Multiple --range switches can be supplied.
Examples:
.PP
.PD 0
       0-49             first 50 bytes
.PP
       50-99,200-249    Two 50 byte ranges from 50 and 200
.PP
       -50              Last 50 bytes
.PP
       1-               Skip first byte then emit the rest
.PD 1
.PP
.TP
\fB\--retries retryCount\fR 
Retry failed requests this number of times.
.TP
\fB\--save dir\fR 
Saves retrieved files to the specified directory.
.TP
\fB\--showHeaders \fR 
Output HTTP headers. Useful for debugging.
.TP
\fB\--single \fR 
Single step between requests by pausing for user input before proceeding.
.TP
\fB\--threads loadThreads\fR 
Number of threads to use. Each URL will be retrieved by all threads. Useful only for load testing. 
.TP
\fB\--timeout seconds\fR 
Specifies a timeout to use for each request in seconds.
.TP
\fB\--username user\fR 
Specify a user name to send with the request. If a password is not specified via --password, the program will 
prompt for a password (which will not be echoed). The username and password will be sent with the request
according to the authentication protocol required by the requested web server and requested document.
.TP
\fB\--verbose\fR 
Verbose mode. Trace activity to stdout. Can by specified multiple times for more verbose tracing.  
This switch can also be abbreviated as \fB\-v\fR.
.PP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to dev@embedthis.com.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003-2009 Embedthis Software.
